# NIST SP 800-171 Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations

!!!important

    A software product -- such as Welkin -- cannot by itself be NIST SP 800-171 conform or certified.
    Instead, NIST SP 800-171 sets requirements **on the organization** and how it works with the software.
    Welkin can support fulfilling all NIST SP 800-171 requirements, provided that the organization has suitable policies and processes in place.
    For example, a tight integration needs to exist between onboard and offboarding personnel in HR and the Identity Provider which integrates with Welkin.
    Below we map NIST SP 800-171 requirements to Welkin features.

!!!important

    This document was written based on NIST SP 800-171 **Rev. 2**.
    As of Jan 2024, Rev. 3 was in final public draft stage.
    Update: Rev. 3 is now available and we have created an [issue](https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes/issues/927) to update this section accordingly when time permits.

## Overview

| Status              | Number of requirements | % of all requirements |
| ------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------- |
| Fully supported     | 54                     | 49%                   |
| Org-related         | 50                     | 45%                   |
| Application-related | 5                      | 5%                    |
| Infra-related       | 1                      | 1%                    |
|                     |                        |                       |
| Total               | 110                    | 100%                  |

## Requirements

Click on the links below to navigate the documentation by control.

[TAGS]

## Notes on Some Requirements

### 3.3.4

Welkin alerts, e.g., if Fluentd is unable to deliver audit logs to OpenSearch.

### 3.3.8 and 3.3.9

Audit logs are stored in OpenSearch and are write-only.

### 3.4.1, 3.4.2 and 3.4.3

Welkin configuration is fully stored in Git and can benefits from Git merge requests, reviews, etc.

### 3.13.5

All Welkin environments should run inside the organization's demilitarized zone (DMZ).

### 3.13.15

Welkin uses HTTPS for all its Service endpoints.

### 3.13.16

Welkin recommends full-disk encryption at the infrastructure level.

### 3.14.1

Please find relevant information in Elastisys [ToS 3.6 Vulnerability Management](https://elastisys.com/legal/terms-of-service/#36-vulnerability-management).

## Further Reading

- [NIST SP 800-171 Rev. 2 Protecting Controlled Unclassified Information in Nonfederal Systems and Organizations](https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-171r2)
